WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And now for
a view from across the aisle,
I'm joined by Congressman
Adam Schiff of California.
He's the top Democrat on the
House Intelligence Committee.
Congressman, so, you had chance
to talk to Jared Kushner today.
What were your
questions going in?
And do you feel like he
answered them satisfactorily?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF (D), California:
We had a variety of
questions certainly
about the four meetings
that he disclosed in his public
statement the other day, but
about a lot of other areas
as well.
We're looking at any of the
Russian active measures that
may have been employed here
that we know they
employ in other places.
We're looking at allegations
concerning the social media
campaign, whether there was any
kind of cooperation or
coordination through
Cambridge Analytica.
We're looking at some of the
financial issues, because one
of the things that the Russians
do is, they use financial
leverage, or sometimes
they develop what the
Russians call kompromat
by engaging in a list of
transactions with people as a
way of being able to hold that
over their head.
So, we went, with this witness,
as we do with all, over the
whole range of our concerns
to do the best we can to get to
the bottom of these allegations.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's
talk about some of those
particular allegations.
One of them was this issue of
this federal disclosure form,
where he failed initially
to reveal that he had these
meetings with dozens of foreign
nationals, including these
meetings with the Russians.
Jared Kushner yesterday said
that this was an innocent
mistake, that this was basically
a rookie error.
Do you buy that as an excuse?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, he doesn't
strike me as a rookie.
I think he's quite
sophisticated.
I don't want to
characterize his testimony.
We actually don't really go
into the details of testimony.
I was surprised that
my colleague was
willing to do that.
I will say this, that the holder
of that clearance, I do believe,
needs to investigate this to
find out whether Mr. Kushner's
explanations are satisfactory,
what the circumstances are,
what was disclosed,
what wasn't disclosed.
We have not yet
obtained the SF-86s.
So we're really not in a
position to evaluate what
and when he disclosed
different things.
But I do believe that other
individuals, not the son-in-law
of the president, if they were
to fail to disclose a meeting
that they attended that was with
people acting on behalf of the
Russian government, promising
dirt on a political opponent, or
a meeting that wasn't disclosed
that involved setting up a
secret back channel at a Russian
diplomatic facility, it is very
unlikely that an ordinary
individual would be allowed
to keep their clearance.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's touch
on a few other issues that are
swirling in Washington right
now.
Obviously, as you have been
hearing in our broadcast, the
president has been very tough
on Attorney General Sessions.
Many people believe that the
president would like him to
either leave or would like to
fire him.
If that were to happen,
what would that do to these
ongoing investigations?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, I
think you're right.
In this case, the president
is being very transparent, at
least as far as his intentions
are concerned.
He wants to force Jeff Sessions
to resign, and, therefore, he
would less have his fingerprints
on hit than if he
fired Jeff Sessions.
And I think the motivation
is quite simple.
He wants to appoint a
more malleable attorney
general when it comes to
the Russia investigation
who is not recused, who can
tell Bob Mueller, you will look
at this, but you won't look
at these other areas that are
evidently so concerning to the
president, including whether
there was any money-laundering
going on with the
Trump Organization.
What should we do about it?
If there is any effort
to interfere with Bob
Mueller's investigation,
we may need to reenact
the independent counsel law,
and make sure that Bob Mueller
has a completely free hand
to look at anything relevant
to the Russia investigation
or that arises from it, which
is his charter now, but
something clearly the president
is uncomfortable with.
The president needs
to understand this is
not his prerogative
to determine what the
investigators are
investigating when it
involves his own organization.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I'm curious
what you think, though.
The president has said --
what's really relevant here is
probably what the GOP would do.
If Sessions were fired, we heard
today many, many senators and
congressmen supporting Jeff
Sessions, but we also
heard Speaker Ryan saying
that, in essence, it
is the president's job
to determine who
is in his Cabinet.
Do you think if this -- if
Sessions were to be let go, that
the GOP would -- there would
be a revolt in his own party?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: I would certainly
hope that that would be the
case, if he either pushes Jeff
Sessions out or he were to
fire Bob Mueller, that both
Democrats and Republicans would
rise to their institutional
responsibility of insisting that
an independent investigation
go forth.
I think it would be a
constitutional crisis.
And I have to say, I'm deeply
disappointed once again to
hear the speaker so downplay
the significance of this,
because that only encourages the
president to engage in conduct
which is, I think, very
seriously at odds with our
system of checks and balances.
When we meet with emerging
democracies, we always
emphasize a couple things.
We emphasize, when you
win an election, you don't
jail the losing party.
And, here, one of the gripes
apparently the president has
is that Jeff Sessions is not
acting to try to
investigate and prosecute
his political opponent.
That is something you see
in a banana republic, not in
the United States of America.
So, members of both
parties need to speak out.
We shouldn't wait until
there is a crisis to do so.
And I hope the speaker
will think better of
what he just said.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lastly,
quickly, Congressman,
the president clearly
still chafes at this
Russia investigation.
And his new communications
director today seemed
to indicate that
the president still
doesn't believe that Russia
was actually involved in trying
to meddle in our election.
Given that huge chasm
between what our intelligence
agencies believe and what
the president believes,
how can this really go forward?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, look, there
is only really one person in
America that doesn't believe
the Russians were involved
in hacking our election.
And that's, unfortunately,
the president.
Even Vladimir Putin, of course,
knows exactly what he's done,
so Russia is under no illusion
about this.
What does this
mean going forward?
It means, of greater
significance to the
country, that we are not
taking the steps to prepare
ourselves when the
Russians intervene again.
And that is very serious,
because there is no
software patch here.
We're not going to be able
to make the DNC or the RNC
immune from Russian hacking.
They're too good, and it's
too difficult to defend.
The only real defense the
country has is to bring
the country together
to forge a consensus
that, no matter who it helps
or who it hurts, we will
reject foreign interference.
And our president is simply
not doing that, and this is
exposing us to further harm.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Congressman Adam Schiff of
California, thanks very much.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Thank you.